# ECE4502_DDPUF
Repository that will contain information regarding the final project for ECE 4502 at UVA. This project will focus on DD-PUF generation on FPGAs. 

## Objective and Motivation

One of our motivations for this project is the novelty of the DD-PUF. According to the literature (https://www.mdpi.com/2410-387X/5/3/23), DD-PUFs are a fairly new method of generating unique keys. This allows us to work on a project that has not been done before, which has the possibility of contributing to research on DD-PUFs. Also, by working on more of a research-based topic, we can gain experience in conducting research on FPGA technologies. 
Another motivation for this project is that it is conceptually easy to understand with a clear path forward. Although the project may still not be easy, it allows us to focus on building on previous research. We believe that we can make significant and meaningful progress in this project. 
Our final motivation for choosing this project is to gain more experience in FPGA layout and optimization. In most FPGA projects, this is optimized and routed automatically by the implementation tool when generating the bitstream. However, for this project, we will not be able to rely on the automatic optimizations of the compiler. Because of this, we will be able to learn more about how the fabric layout is created and how to manipulate it to meet our designs. 

## Introduction/Context of Project

## Implementation Details
1. DD-PUF generator block implementation

The DD-PUF generator block will consist of 128 DD-PUF bit cells. The DD-PUF bit cell is a RTL block written in Verilog. It takes in start and reset signals, and outputs a random 1 or 0 based on a race condition between two latches.
The DD-PUF generator will generate a 128-bit response, which will be passed to the SPI block. 

3. FSM Design

The FSM block will be a RTL block written in Verilog. It should have two outputs: start and reset. These outputs control the duration of the generate signal, or how long a logic high is set to the input of the DD-PUF generator.
Additionally, the FSM block has a single 32-bit input taken from the SPI block: _duration_. It has a 1-bit input _FSM_START_, that activates the FSM and begins the process of triggering the DD-PUF. It also has a 1-bit output _complete_, that tells the SPI block that the DDPUF has stabilized and generated a response.

3. SPI Interface

The SPI block has 4 connections that expose the SPI interface: MOSI, MISO, CS, and SCK. The block is connected to the SPI interface of the PS (?). The PS sends commands to the MISO pin of the SPI block.
The SPI block also has a 16-bit output that sets _duration_ of the generate signal.
Finally, the SPI block takes in the 128-bit response generated by the DD-PUF and outputs it through the MISO pin. 


## Actions that neeed to be completed:
1. DD-PUF bit cell design
*   a. Create verilog block
*   b. Connect to PS
*   c. Do manual routing and test
3. 128-bit DD-PUF generator block design
*   a. Connect 128 bit cells into a block
4. FSM design
*   a. Create Verilog Block
5. SPI interface design
*   a. Use Xilinx IP block for SPI interface
## References/Source Files: 

[Sala -- A Novel Ultra-Compact FPGA PUF: The DD-PUF](https://www.mdpi.com/2410-387X/5/3/23)
